US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
on his way back to the Middle East to
present a new plan for a ceasefire in
Gaza he says the new proposal has input
from Qatar and Egypt and addresses some
of the key concerns of both Israel and
Hamas the plan initially provides for a
complete and unrestricted ceasefire of 6
weeks Lincoln's trip comes after a hmer
spokesperson said that signs of progress
after two days of talks in Doha were an
illusion and after another wave of
Israeli air strikes in central
Gaza backto back Israeli strikes on an
apartment Block in central
Gaza after the dust clears people bring
out the dead and
injured not far away a house and a
warehouse destroyed in an overnight
Israeli attack
the Hamas Raza Health Ministry said over
a dozen people were killed most from the
same
family they were asleep in their beds
kids and babies then three missiles
targeted their
home the place is well known Abu chat is
a fish and meat Merchant with their
targeting Merchants who else is next
the Israeli military said it had struck
militant Targets in an area where
Rockets had been fired at its
troops it has also called on residents
in parts of central Gaza to flee ahead
of a new military
operation there is great suffering how
can we move from place to place without
money I left home I didn't know where to
go I swear to God that people gave me
five she to go to the hospital to treat
my
son the latest strike came hours after
mediators including the usq and Egypt
expressed optimism that a ceasefire deal
between Israel and Hamas could be
imminent the mediators have submitted an
important proposal there is
communication between the Israeli and
Palestinian sides and if the intentions
are sincere and if there is political
will then a ceasefire can reached we're
looking at ways to close any remaining
gaps Hamas did not participate directly
in the first round of peace talks in
Doha and it cast doubt on the prospect
of an
agreement meanwhile cousins are keeping
their fingers crossed for a potential
breakthrough in the upcoming
negotiations which are set to resume in
Ciro next
week journalist bik sardin joins us from
Tel Aviv could some part of these talks
pave the way for a ceasefire or could
you envisage the actual signing of a
deal at this point in
time well that's definitely what the
Americans and the other mediators are
hoping for we are approaching a dramatic
week there are still some gaps uh
according to what we've heard uh and the
delegation that came from Cairo on
Friday told the Prime Minister and
that's according to the prime minister's
office that there is some uh uh uh
cautious optimism as the statement from
the prime minister's office states which
means that there could be some of the um
issues that remained unsolved
specifically the Philadelphia Corridor
and the narim corridor which is the
corridor that splits the Gaza Strip into
two uh and the Israeli side is still
asking for some sort of a system or a
method
way to monitor who goes back from the
gazans from the south of the strip to
their homes to the north of the strip
according to the framework that
President Biden puts out uh um
on excuse me last uh may he said that
only civilians will go back to the north
of the Gaza Strip and that's an issue
for the Israelis and the prime minister
is still asking for a way to ensure that
specific thing now uh this week uh the
um there is a delegation that will go to
Cairo in order to deal with the
Philadelphia Corridor issue and
secretary blinkin is said to arrive to
Israel today and meet with Israeli
officials including the Prime Minister
tomorrow in order to discuss uh the
remaining gaps specifically that narim
Corridor issue that I just um um said
blink's been back and forth time and
again during this war how do you think
his presence during these negotiations
could change
things well this is I guess it's his
10th or ninth visit to the region and he
always comes here after uh some more
development is has been made uh now
Lincoln knows and that's what the
President also said uh that the Israeli
side will not uh give up on the Narin
issue and also the Philadelphia Corridor
issue and that's why uh blinkin is said
to come to Israel in order to put more
pressure on the Israelis but I'm not
sure exactly how because the only way
that the Americans has putting pressure
on the Israelis is by withholding some
of the ammunition specifically the heavy
bombs that uh uh the Administration has
uh yet to deliver to supply to Israel
and that uh has been uh since I guess
April or May so we're not talking about
anything new news that could put more
pressure in the Israelis maybe all to
convince them to avoid a full-blown out
war with the Iranians because the
Americans are hoping that if we proceed
to ceasefire deal then will that will
deter the Iranians and hisbah from
attacking Israel you heard it from
journalist bik stin in Tel Aviv thank
you very much for being on DW news